How did you get started in thinking
about time and delegating?
>> So, my first job out of school was
working at the White House and I worked
for the president's top economic
adviser. And I got to walk in the West
Wing every morning, which was cool life
experience. And I sat next to the
president's executive assistants. And as
you might imagine, the executive
assistants to the president are really
freaking good. and it set my bar crazy
high for what this client EA partnership
could look like. And so when I left the
White House to start my first company, I
asked myself the question, what if I had
an assistant or a team of assistants
that was as good as the president's?
Obviously, I'm not going to become
president, but what else could I
accomplish if I had that sort of
support? And so hired my first uh
assistant that way and then set out on a
journey to build the best team I could
to see how it would change my life.
>> What were the unlocks that you saw
inside of the White House? Like how how
complex and big is the system of spindly
octopuses with their tentacles and
everything trying to help get the
machine moving.
>> I mean, it's insane. The president has
multiple assistants, as you might
imagine. There's actually an entire
department called advance that plans
every minute of the president's life for
months in advance. And so if he's going
to be in Brazil in 3 months, there's
people deployed months in advance to go
scope prepare everything. Um, and you
know, I think there's just kind of the
level of optimization, which is one
thing, but the thing that really struck
me sitting next to the president's
assistance is seeing the relationship
they had. It wasn't just saving him time
or doing tasks for him. At the end of
the day, he would sit down, lean back in
his chair, and be like, "What happened?"
And he would talk to his assistant. And
this was one of the people he trust most
in the world. There's all these other
people jocking for his attention,
governors, senators, NSA chiefs. But
this assistant is the one person who's
just like got his back fundamentally,
emotionally, psychologically. And you
could tell there was a real
psychological connection that was very
valuable uh beyond just the work.
[snorts]
>> So it was a [clears throat] deep
relationship of trust and kind of
awareness I suppose because of how
globally uh connected that assistant is
to everything.
>> Exactly. Like if you have an assistant
there in your inbox, they're seeing the
lawsuit that's coming, the person that's
quitting, the money you just raised, the
investor that rejected you, all the
highs and lows that are shielded from
most of your company or most of the
White House. But that assistant sees all
of it. And so they're on the emotional
journey with you more than really anyone
else.
>> Okay. So jump to the end. That's the
beginning. Jump to the end. What is your
current setup when it comes to life with
assistants?
>> So, I've I've got a chief of staff and a
half dozen assistants uh that roll into
that chief of staff. The each assistant
specializes in different things. So, one
helps me with work, one helps me with
finance, one helps me with uh my kiddos
house, etc. Uh you know, I wouldn't
recommend to anyone they start with that
many. You start with one and get to
capacity and then you keep going to the
extent your means and your ambition
allows. But in my experience the you
know I I just experienced this time
scarcity for most of my life of I just
want more out of life. I want to spend
more time with my family, my kids, do
more work and there's only so many hours
in the day. And as I layered on more
assistance, I eventually when I got to
six got to the point where I was like,
"Wow, I have this feeling of time
abundance where so much is taken care of
that I can start thinking about new
things that I want to do." And that for
me was the most fundamental unlock. And
it's not to say that's easy. That took
me a decade to get there. No one's going
to turn it on in a day, but it's
possible and it feels really good. And I
think that's what most people are
looking for in life is more time.
>> How do you come to think about time
then? Like how do you regard it as a a
resource or a a contributing element of
people's lives?
>> It's the most uh primary asset in the
world. It's the ultimate currency,
right? Uh I think lots of people want
more money or want to be popular or uh
you know want power if they're in
politics. I think these are false goals.
The real goal is to control your time
and that's what we all want more of.
It's the only non-renewable asset. You
can't get more of it. Uh and uh yeah,
people have different uses of that time.
It can be to start a business or spend
time with their family, but ultimately
time is all we've got and it should be
treated as the most fundamental thing in
the world.
I think this is one of the reasons that
this conversation can be pretty
uncomfortable for people because it
sounds like rich founder who began his
career in the White House now has an a
small platoon of people who enable him
in position of already material
[clears throat] privilege to sort of
maximize that uh that reach even more
and to get even further down the line. I
think the the interesting thing for me
when I was maybe early 20s was I started
looking at some of the things that I did
when I bought my first house when I was
27. And I realized that I really hated
cleaning, but that a cleaner in the
northeast of the UK was 40 every two
weeks. And that meant that I didn't need
to buy a vacuum cleaner cuz she brought
her own vacuum cleaner and I didn't want
to vacuum. And I don't think you need to
vacuum your house more than once about
every two week unless you've probably
got kids in which case it's every day.
But um as soon as you sort of accept
that well
is my time more valuable than you know 3
hours at 40 per time. Well yeah maybe it
is or maybe I just really hate cleaning
or or doing the gardening or whatever it
might be. As soon as you accept that, I
think it becomes just one straight line
from well, there's little ways that I
can claw back my time by using money or
whatever other resource I need to trade
for it in order to be able to not have
to do something I don't want to do so I
can do something that I do want to do.
And I in some ways although a you know
Navy Seal team of assistants sounds
quite unachievable for most people. It
is a single lineage from I have a
cleaner or a gardener or someone who
washes my car uh straight to I have an
army of people and a chief of staff.
>> Yeah. Look, I I grew up in the Midwest
in farm country, farm boy. We had no
assistants or house cleaners or anything
like that around. So I know how it
sounds. Uh but it's possible to get
leverage uh without spending any money,
right? You can use chat GPT to get
started. We can talk about that. You can
delegate to your friends, right? If you
don't have a single dollar to spend on
an assistant, you can get a group of
four friends together and say, "Hey,
let's all babysit each each other's kids
one one night a week while you just got
a free babysitter for those other three
nights." Uh so there's ways
>> such a clever idea
>> ways to get leverage for all of us. And
you know my recommendation to people is
you start small with whatever resources
you have and you learn to delegate to an
AI assistant. Uh people talk about
prompt engineering. That's just
delegation. And as you get really good
at that and you have the resources then
you can upgrade to an assistant with
company like ours or an in-person
assistant which is even more expensive
or yeah a fleet of assistants that runs
your whole life. We I work with you know
billionaires who have teams of 50. Uh,
it's totally mindblowing and that's out
of reach for almost all of us. But I
think everyone can take the the first
couple steps and you go as far as you
want or you're able.
>> Let's begin at level zero then. Let's
say that someone thinks okay I I I I
believe that time is pretty important.
What is the what is some of the zerocost
or very lowcost ways that people can
start to do that and then we can build
up toward the platoon?
>> Yeah. So level zero is you delegate to
friends and family. uh cost you nothing.
And this is group work. So the you get
together, you do the babysitting, you
get together and you say, "Hey, I want
to meet more friends in dinner parties.
I'll plan one dinner party once a
quarter." If these other friends, you
also do it once a quarter. And now you
get a monthly dinner party, making new
friends, and you're only doing a couple
times a year. So that's level zero, and
that's where everyone should start. The
next level above that is 20 bucks a
month. Chat GPT uh you know they're
trying to be a human assistant. It's uh
limited in what it can do today but you
can use it like a coach like uh you know
a limited assistant and so you know if
you want to uh exercise more you can go
to chatpt and say every day ask me if
I've exercised and check in with me and
give me a report card at the end of the
week. It can do that 20 bucks a month.
You'll learn how to leverage it more and
more over time. Once you have the
resources for, you know, 510 bucks an
hour, you can go to Upwork or uh a
company like that and hire someone
directly. If you've got 3,000 bucks a
month, you can work at a with a company
like Athena where we recruit, train,
manage the assistant for you. And then
if you want someone in person, it's
$100,000 a year. And then, you know, it
goes up to infinity. That this
billionaire that I worked with has team
of 50. He has eight executive
assistants. The executive assistants all
graduate from Princeton. [laughter] It's
totally wild and crazy. Uh but yeah, you
start small with whatever resources
you've got.
>> So, you think about buying hours being
more important than buying things then.
>> Yeah, of course. I mean, what what do
people ultimately want? They want
connection. They want time with their
friends. They want time to exercise,
time to learn. And uh that's that's what
gives us meaning. And so, um, yeah, the
most the most successful people I know,
the happiest people I know, they're not
buying things. They're not buying cars,
uh, or clothes. They're buying time. And
the more time you buy, the more you have
for everything else in life. Isn't
>> it a strange
inversion of how
people often think about
where their time should be spent, where
their money should be spent, that, well,
I've worked so hard. I deserve this
holiday. But if you look at what a
family holiday for four people, I mean,
how many sessions of a cleaner is that?
Um, I remember Sean Puri got a ton of
[__] on Twitter. And it is, it's so
strange to me the delegating thing being
such a trigger for a lot of people
because it does sound very out of reach.
I think it's a having staff, especially
when it's something that you can do for
free. You you can't fly the plane for
free. You can't build the hotel for
free. You can't go to the sunny place
for free. So the value exchange is more
apparent. But when it's you could wash
your car for free,
>> you could do the laundry for free. You
could do these things. There's this sort
of odd bourgeoa luxurious opulent kind
of thing that's going on. But yeah, Sean
Puri basically said, um, we haven't
bought a new car for a decade or
something. There's no new family car.
Um, but we've got a chef and I have a
chef that that comes around twice a week
and cooks for that night and then meal
preps stuff for the next couple of days.
And just the words I've got a chef
[laughter]
>> so out of touch. They sound so
horrendously out of touch. I've got a
chef. Uh, but if you were to say I got a
new car 5 years ago, you would not say
that. But he netted it out and it was it
was pretty much the same cost I think to
get a new car every 5 years as it was to
keep one for 10 and get a chef that came
around twice a week or something.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, my wife and I
joke we'd burn down our house before we
let go of our personal team. They mean
that [laughter]
they mean that much to us. And I think
the the words you're using do matter.
It's I have a chef that signals this
kind of separation. I'm better than you
maybe is how someone hears it.
>> Uh, another way to say it is I help
support another person. And I think this
is a barrier for lots of people is
feeling guilt about delegating like is
it okay for me to hand this off? It
makes me feel different or it's giving
this small little task to someone.
>> But I like to reframe that and say
delegation is your way of gifting to
someone else. You're giving them a job.
You're giving them income. Like the more
we hire, the more we delegate. We
literally just putting money in other
people's pockets. And it's more than
money. It's a job and it's meaning and
something uh craft that they get good
at. And so, you know, the more you
delegate, the more you give that gift of
of meaning to other people. And of
course, you get something in return,
which is food or time or whatever it
might be.
>> Talk to me about the relationship
between time and health.
>> I think it's the most fundamental thing.
So you you hear Brian Johnson talk about
sleep being the most fundamental. You
got to sleep because if you sleep then
you can exercise. If you exercise then
you eat well. And those are the
fundamentals of of good health. But why
do people not sleep much? It's not cuz
they don't want to. It's cuz they don't
have time. Uh they're working too late.
They want to spend time with the kids.
And so in my view time is actually the
most fundamental pillar of health. And
learning to control your time and
getting sovereignty up, right, is how
you then unlock good sleep and
everything else that follows. [snorts]
>> Where
are the places that people are wasting
time or where are they spending time in
very low leverage ways or in what ways
is it being sapped and pulled away from
them that they might not realize?
>> Yes. Yes, I think the for most beginner
delegators, they start by delegating
things that sap energy and that are
monotonous and annoying. That's renewing
a passport or a driver's license. It's
calendar. It's inbox. It's paying bills.
These are things that don't require any
cognitive load, don't require any
creativity. It's not why people get up
in the morning. And so starting there
reduces this just kind of like cognitive
weight that you carry every day. You've
got to do XYZ. But you take those things
off and then the things that remain are
higher order. It's planning, it's goals,
it's aspirations and those higher order
things are much more exciting, more
energy uh giving and that is uh that's a
wonderful trade. [snorts]
>> So cognitive offloading is a mental
upgrade here in that regard.
>> Exactly. Yeah. the more you uh the more
you offload, the more time you have for
the highest order things in your life.
Uh you know, I'd like to say assistance
like a cognitive uh prosthetic for
remembering, planning, sequencing. And
just like inflammation damages your body
and health, chronic to-dos damages or
impairs your mind. And so the more we
can free ourselves of those things, the
freer and the more upgraded our mind can
be. What I think when it comes to
delegation a lot of people have a
a number of icks and concerns probably
quite a lot of hurdles to get over. I
certainly know that I did and do like
especially if you're a
hard charging get after it yourself uh
the prospect of giving tasks to somebody
else. Uh
I don't know I seem to have two
categories of friends. One are those who
can't wait to offload and another are
those who can't work out how to do it.
So
>> what are the what are the cardinal sins
of of delegation?
>> So the number one I call pride. This is
the thinking it's better or faster to do
it yourself. This is the cardinal sin of
delegation because it's true. It
actually is faster and you will be
better at doing something the first
time. uh whether it's sending an email
or uh planning a party but the hundth
time you do it uh you won't be faster
and better and so it is it takes effort
to delegate and to hand that off uh but
you have to get over the fact that you
could do it faster or better but you
could be doing something else so that's
the first thing which I call pride the
second is guilt which is really on the
other end of the spectrum which is I
don't even feel good about you know
having this person manage the minutiae
of my life or wait on hold all day long.
And uh for these people, my reframe is
you're giving this other person a job
and you know companies like Athena, we
recruit people who are excited to
support and take care of you. It's
really like a caretaker job and for them
they get to take care of someone else
and that feels good and you have to
delegate in order to give them that
opportunity. Um the other uh blockers I
call it selfishness which is just not
opening up your life. uh enough. If you
don't give access, your assistant can't
really help you if you don't have access
to your inbox, your calendar, other
parts of your life. They have to have
the context to really get in. And then
you have to be willing to give them lots
of hard, sometimes uncomfortable
feedback like, "Hey, I liked how you did
this. Oh, I wish you could have done
that better." And giving really
detailed, continual feedback is
something only top 1% delegators do.
Most people struggle because it takes
extra work and you have to be willing to
make someone feel a little bit
uncomfortable. Uh so you have to learn
how to give that hard feedback in a way
that's encouraging, supportive. And then
the last uh blocker for most people is
just a lack of commitment. They will try
try it for a month or try it part-time.
I've never seen that really work to get
ultimate leverage. The the people who
get the most leverage are going all in.
They're doing it for a decade. They're
all in with a full-time person. And you
know the you look at the clients we work
with the ones who have really
transformed their life. They're working
with the same person for many years and
that person becomes their second brain
knows them like a little sister. That's
how I think of my assistant I've worked
with the longest. She knows everything
about me and that takes this long-term
commitment.
So
just putting a toe in doesn't give the
assistant the
required depth of resolution to be able
to actually look at what's going on in
life. They need to be able to see
everything and the gains acrew as they
start to see more.
>> It's like getting married but uh only
going on a couple dates. uh you know the
marriage and I think all good things
wealth relationships they compound and
the power of compounding is uh it gets
better and better gradually over time
and it's true with an assistant the the
more you do the deeper uh and better it
gets
>> right okay
what is your perspective on the
difference between a VA and an in-person
PA or something cuz what you're talking
about here with Athena a lot of this are
virtual assistants And presumably people
can get these for cheaper, but your
virtual assistant might be able to
organize a cleaner, but can't be a
cleaner. They might be able to organize
someone to collect your Amazon parcel,
but they can't go and post it
themselves. So, how do you think about
piecing together different assistants in
that sort of a way?
>> Yeah, I mean, if you have the budget for
both, that's the best. You have someone
in person for arms and legs and to run
around and help you and someone in the
cloud who's virtual. Uh, typically
someone who's virtual is less expensive.
uh you know Athena our assistants are
based in the Philippines or Kenya where
um you have uh great talent at more
affordable rates and in person you know
if you're in New York or SF or Austin
it's just going to be more expensive.
So, you know, I recommend people start
virtual and then as you have resources,
you can do more. Uh, you know, the team
and I were just joking. There's these
humanoid robots that are now getting
closer and some of them are tea
operated. And we're like, you know,
we're not far away from you be able to
have a robot in your house that your
virtual assistant can actually tea
operate. And so,
hey, you be like, "Hey, can you grab me
a coffee?" and they could teleoperate
the robot in your house and bring it to
your desk. Uh, you know, that's we're
we're getting pretty close to that being
a real thing. So, that's it's going to
be a fun frontier when that happens.
This episode is brought to you by Whoop.
I have been wearing Whoop for over 5
years now, way before they were a
partner on the show. I've actually
tracked over 1,600 days of my life with
it, according to the app, which is
insane. And it's the only wearable I've
ever stuck with because it tracks
everything that matters. Sleep,
workouts, recovery, breathing, heart
rate, even your steps. And the new 5.0
is the best version. You get all the
benefits that make Whoop indispensable.
7% smaller, but now it's also got a
14day battery life and has health span
to track your habits, how they affect
your pace of aging. It's got hormonal
insights for ladies. I'm a huge, huge
fan of Whoop. That's why it's the only
wearable that I've ever stuck with. And
best of all, you can join for free. Pay
nothing for the brand new Whoop 5.0
strap. Plus, you get your first month
for free. And there's a 30-day money
back guarantee. So, you can buy it for
free. Try it for free. If you do not
like it after 29 days, they just give
you your money back. Right now, you can
get the brand new Whoop 5.0 and that
30-day trial by going to the link in the
description below or heading to
join.woop.com/modernwisdom.
That's join.woop.com/modernwisdom.
whoop.com/modernwisdom.
What is happening with AI and assistance
at the moment? I think the number one
use case for chatbt is coaching which is
probably not far off what you're doing.
It's like help me with this problem
might be a little bit more closet
psychotherapist than a typical assistant
but uh yeah what what are you guys doing
with AI? What what's interesting with
regards to how that can unlock people's
delegation and time?
>> Yeah. So our vision is uh we merge the
best of human best to machine into one
product. And so the human is the UX
humans are good UX and then behind that
human we're building machine assistants
that automate more and more of it over
time. And my analogy is like Tesla was
self-driving. The Elon built the first
cars with steering wheels because you
had to drive them. He didn't build them
without steering wheels. And as you
drive them, you're actually teaching the
machine how to drive. And progressively
they automated. They have assisted
steering and auto braking and then
eventually full self-driving. And we
view uh our work as similar. It's going
to be fully human and then gradually the
machine will do more and more. Human
will always be in the loop. uh but the
human will be able to do more advanced
more powerful more creative uh tasks
over time and the machine will do the
more rope mechanical stuff and it's
effectively the AI will become an
assistant to the human assistant uh
which will increase their memory um
allow them to work overnight do all
sorts of cool productivity things uh but
our view is the human uh touch is real
and is going to last for a long time no
matter how much uh some of the AI
promoters would like to say otherwise,
but the combination is uh going to be a
pretty cool thing. [snorts]
>> Yeah, that's cool.
Around the I can do it better or I keep
finding frustration when getting
somebody else to do a task on my behalf
that can last for maybe a bit longer
than you might want. How does someone
navigate that that challenge dayto day?
Yeah, I think some of it is expectation
setting. I think some people think you
just delegate and it works and that's
not the real world. The the real world
is you delegate and the first version
doesn't work or it's not exactly what
you wanted and then you get feedback and
you do it again and the next time's a
little better and you have to have a
high tolerance for failure, for
iteration. But as long as you have a
high tolerance for those things and you
just continue compounding improvements,
then it gets better and better over
time. But yeah, I think like most things
in life, there's no easy button. [gasps]
Uh you've got to invest in the
partnership. And you know, we tell
clients who work with us, if you just
want to show up and want everything,
your life to be perfect is not going to
work. Uh you have to invest. And the
more you invest, the better your
partnership will get. And in fact, if
you look at the best assistants at
Athena, the kind of top 1%, they just so
happen to work for the clients who are
the best at delegating. Not a
coincidence. They've become so good
because the client is so good at
exporting their thinking, giving
feedback, praise and recognition,
helping build up their confidence when
they make mistakes, helping correct them
and steer them. And it really is a
marriage of sorts. And so as long as
both parties are really invested in it,
it can be super powerful. But if it's
one-sided,
ain't going to work.
>> How do people get better feedback? I
think this is something that lots of
humans struggle with.
>> So number one thing is do it more often.
People just don't do it enough. The
number two thing is you need to be way
more detailed. Hey, this was good or hey
that was not good. Not helpful. Helpful
feedback is very specific and it's very
timely. It's hey this task you did I
liked because you were super fast, you
were detailed XYZ or hey next time I'd
like you to do this differently and be
very specific. So that's just the most
like you need to be doing it constantly.
It needs to be very detailed. The other
thing that is nonobvious to lots is that
you should really be exporting your own
personal algorithm and your own thinking
as you delegate. So, kind of a a novice
way of delegating would be, "Hey, will
you plan a dinner party for Chris and me
when I'm in Austin next week?" That's
probably not going to be organized the
way you want because there's not much
detail there. The better way to delegate
would be to say, "Hey, when I have
dinner parties, here's what I like them
to be. I want to be six to eight people.
I want there to be a variety. Here's
where I go to find party invites. I go
look for people who have this sort of
company or these sorts of interests."
You basically create an algorithm uh or
a process the person can follow step by
step and then you then then they have
like real guidance for executing and
then they execute and then you go back
to that process and say hey there's
three steps in here that we missed they
will refine this further let's continue
to tweak the algorithm. People who are
kind of engineering minds this comes
very naturally but for other people uh
you have to learn how to do it. It makes
it makes sense to say not just this is
the thing that I want, but this is how I
typically get there. If [clears throat]
if you have a a person who helps you do
meal prep or helps you with your emails
or something and you don't explain to
them, well, actually, I like my eggs to
be a little bit firmer. So typically
what I do is d or when I send a reply I
tend to put two signatures in because it
actually shows up differently on the
thread and I think that link's important
to show a little bit of reputation and
so this is how I do it. Um I suppose it
allows people to see your thinking.
>> Exactly. There's a in AI world there's
this concept of context engineering
that's become very popular to make the
models more performant. you have to pipe
in all the context cuz the models are
very smart but they don't have context.
And the same is true with delegating to
an assistant or otherwise is like if
there's not enough context it's
impossible to do it well. And so your
job as a delegator is to export all the
context you have. And what's nonobvious
is that you have a million times more
context than you could possibly realize
and it's just sitting there and it takes
practice to export that. And that's why
these things compound over time because
there's no way to export it all on day
one. But over the course of compounding
for months and years, you eventually get
there.
How do people build a tolerance for
inefficiency? Because especially if
you're the sort of person who thinks
I might I might get a cleaner. I might
get a cleaner for a little bit or I'm
gonna I am I am going to get someone to
do the gardening because I [__] hate
it and I I kind of suck and I really
want to spend my time on Sunday mornings
with the kids instead.
If you're the sort of person who is
prepared to make that cognitive leap,
you're also probably a perennial
overoptimizer in any case, which means
that when you see inefficiency, that is
a particular bug bear to you. So, how do
you improve your tolerance for
inefficiency?
I
>> think part of it is just realizing it's
the right trade. So, you know, does
Michael Jordan mow his own lawn? No. But
you know what? I bet if he did, he'd be
effing amazing, [laughter] right? And
whoever does it is never going to reach
his level potential. But he could just
be doing something else. And so, it's
like, do you want to do something else
even if something's done inefficiently?
That's just uh something you have to
accept. Uh another kind of framing I
have is Elon sometimes talks about teams
being the vector sum. So a company's a
vector sum of all the humans involved.
And you know it's just a fancy way of
saying there's inefficiency because
these vectors are not perfectly aligned.
And the only way to get more output is
to have a higher tolerance for
inefficiency. And that's just a
fundamental rule of the universe is if
you're focused on more and more output,
there's going to be more and more
inefficiency because more humans are
involved.
>> Right. Okay. So inefficiency is a price
that you need to pay to increase output
overall.
Well, I mean, I remember in university
learning about diseconomies of scale and
one of the biggest ones being
communication that you know everything
that you need to know by design of the
fact that you already know it and you're
the only person that needs it
communicating to. Soon as you got two
people, well, they need to know what you
now know and some of it gets lost in
translation. And as soon as you scale up
to 13, there's lots that gets missed and
lost, but your total capacity for
overall output has gone up. Even though
the efficiency is less, 13 people in a
team is less efficient than one person
13 times in 13 different companies, but
the total output of the company that's
got 13 staff is greater than any of the
individuals that have got one
>> 100%. Yeah. You know, how do you another
way of asking this question is how do
you measure your life? Do you measure it
by efficiency or do you measure it by
how many times you go on a date with
your wife or how many times you exercise
or how much you spend time doing a
hobby? Those outputs are what you
actually care about. You don't care
about the inefficiencies that were
involved in creating those outputs. You
just want uh that good life that you
want.
>> Wow. Yeah. Okay. What about the
relationship between leverage and
ambition? because it seems to me that
lots of people who are very ambitious
lean into their leverage, but I I get
the sense that it can become a feedback
loop as well. So, how do you come to
construct ambition and leverage? Yeah,
this is one of the more counterintuitive
things that we discovered as we've
coached clients on delegation, which is
most people assume that
powerful people or successful people
have all this leverage and that's how
they become ambitious. That's why they
have all this ambition. Um or because
they have all this money, they can
create all this leverage. But what we
see in practice is that people's
ambition clearly grows linearly as their
leverage grows. And the reason for this
is pretty clear. When you are
overwhelmed by life, uh when you have
more than you can possibly handle, your
ambition just narrows because you're
trying to get through the next 24 hours.
Mhm.
>> But to the extent you take this
cognitive load off, you share it with
someone else, this partner or assistant,
you now have the cognitive space to
think about bigger goals, bigger
aspirations. And so as you unlock more
leverage, your ambition actually grows.
I've seen this in my own life during
times with my first company, Thumbtac,
when, you know, we're just drowning with
all the work and the challenges. uh I
was just focused on that thing and there
was no space in my mind to consider new
aspirations but to the extent I've
gotten more and more leverage over time
you know what do you want to do with it
oh it's like do I want to start another
company do I want to yeah do more cool
things for my friends and that's how
that's how your ambition can really grow
>> well I mean how many people say that the
reason they can't think about the
important is because the urgent is in
the way. And I suppose that means that
the more time you spend not doing the
urgent, the more important stuff you
have access to. That seems like a pretty
good trade.
>> Exactly. Yeah. The
you got to do you got to do the urgent
so you have the Yeah. the right and the
opportunity to do the important and to
the extent you can offload the urgent,
you get more than important and that's a
beautiful trade. Is there a relationship
here with willpower as well that not
having to do [__] means that you can
use your willpower on stuff that
somebody else can't do?
>> Absolutely. I mean, we we all have a
limited number uh a little amount of
willpower and work ethic, right? It's
like I I will I would say I I can work
10% more, 20% more, but I can't work 100
or 10 times more and I can't have 10
times more willpower. It's just
impossible. I have God and nature has
granted me with a certain amount of
those things and so I have to use that
limited willpower and limited agency in
the best way possible and I don't want
to be using my limited willpower on you
know my passport renewal is just not the
highest order thing in my life. I would
rather be using that to yeah help a
friend uh solve a problem or accomplish
something in my business or or something
else. And so I think you can unlock more
willpower uh into higher order things
the more you unload these more
monotonous things. Before we continue,
you might not realize it, but mouth
breathing at night is wrecking your
sleep, recovery, and energy the next
day. And all of that is actually fixed
massively by this here. This is intake,
which is a nose strip dilator. And I've
been using it every night for over a
year now. I tried pretty much everyone
in the world and uh this is by far the
best. It's a hard plastic strip as
opposed to a soft flimsy disposable
thing. Intake opens up your nostrils
using patented magnetic technology so
you get more air in with every breath.
It means less snoring, deeper sleep,
faster recovery, and better focus the
next day. The problem with most nasal
strips is that they peel off. They
irritate your skin. They don't actually
solve the issue. This sucker is uh I
mean I'm not going to shoot a bullet at
it, but it's very very strong. It's
reusable and comfortable enough that you
forget it's even there. That is why it's
trusted by proathletes, busy parents,
and over a million customers who just
want to breathe and sleep better. And
I'm one of them. I've used them every
single night for over 12 months now.
They're the best. There's a 90-day money
back guarantee, so you can try it for 3
months. And if you don't like it, if you
haven't got better sleep, they'll just
give you your money back. Plus, they
ship internationally and offer free
shipping in the US. Right now, you can
get 15% off your first order by going to
the link in the description below or
heading to
intakebreathing.com/modernwisdom
and using the code modernwisdom a
checkout. That's
intakebreathing.com/modernwisdism
and modern wwisdom a checkout.
Go through
for me. Let's say someone's bought in.
They're like, "That's it. I'm going to
find myself an assistant. I'm going to
do it through Athena or I'm going to
find somebody in person or whatever."
What what does effective levels of
integration? Where should somebody
start? What are the first things to
outsource? What are the the ways to best
onboard? And take me through the the
full stack.
>> Yeah. So step one is uh start with catch
GPT or in person or whatever it is. And
the beginner way to delegate is offload
pain. So make a list of all the things
that you don't like doing that reduce
your willpower that make you unhappy and
start there. And this is kind of
monotonous stuff. It's like your inbox,
your calendar, paying bills, passport
renewal, etc. Uh this might take a year
to offload all these things. uh as you
offload.
>> I just need to pause I need to pause
there that that the um
what a lot of people might assume I
think and I know I certainly did when I
started working with assistants was this
is going to be the immediate fix for me.
I'm going to introduce this person into
my life and I'm never going to have to
do anything again. But uh being modest
with the speed at which this integration
is going to happen effectively I think
is a a really really good idea.
Yeah, look, uh, my recommendation is you
you do this as a new way of living. I
think that's the right way to do
anything. Exercise, meditation, or
whatever. If you're doing it for a week
or a month, kind of worthless. But if
you can do this for the rest of your
life, then it will compound. And yeah,
you start with pain, unload, all these
monotonous things. And then once you do
that, then you start chasing your
aspirations. It's how do I, you know,
for me, this is how do I make more
friends? How do I deepen my
relationships? How do I have the best
marriage possible? How can I be there
for friends in need? Um, and those are
the sorts of things that assistant can
actually help you with, but you're not
going to actually do that unless you've,
you know, got your passport renewed and
your, uh, credit card bills paid and
everything else done first. So, that's
kind of the high level. Remove pain and
then increase your aspirations and and
go for your goals. Um, in terms of the
levels of delegation, the way most
people start delegating is they delegate
by task. Hey, will you help order these
flowers for uh my wife's birthday?
That's a good way to start, but it's the
least powerful way to delegate. The more
intermediate way to delegate is delegate
by process is what we talked about is
like, hey, when I give gifts to my wife,
I want X, Y, and Z. Here's what she
likes. Here's what she doesn't. and
you're now teaching your assistant how
to do things at a higher level. The next
level more advanced delegators do is
they deate delegate by goal. And this
takes often years where you've
mindmelted with your assistant and give
them so much feedback that you can just
delegate a goal and they can execute it
in the way you want.
>> So this is, hey, I want to exercise
more. I want to protect my sleep. I want
to spend more time with this person in
my life. Architect my calendar. Reject
meetings that don't fit this priority.
No one can start by delegating by goal.
You have to build your way up. But this
is where you want to get to. And then
the highest level uh of delegation, I
call it clairvoyant delegation. Um this
is the nirvana of delegation. This is
where you have given so much feedback
and your assistant is so in line with
your personal professional goals that
they can anticipate your needs and the
first time you hear about a task is when
it's done. This is a level that is very
difficult to reach. Uh I would not
promise anyone gets this on week one,
but this is what you should aspire to
get to. And I I have glimpses of this
now uh all the time. It's not something
I live in constantly, but my assistant
will reach out and say, "Hey, I know you
wanted you'd want me to do X, Y, and Z.
It's already done here. You just got to
sign this." And that is where you're
like, "Yeah, this this this is good."
And uh yeah, it unlocks
so much cognitive load that you didn't
even have to delegate it. You didn't
think about it. It was just hey, it's
done and um now you can go on to do
something else.
>> I suppose that's one of the current
limitations of AI that
by design the prompt needs to be done
before the task is completed. I'm not
I'm sure there probably is somewhere,
but I don't think any of the LLMs at the
moment are going to pop up on a Monday
morning and remind you that you need to
do the thing or have done the thing and
then tell you that it's been done on
your behalf. It's still very sort of top
down as opposed to bottom up.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Uh, I I do think AI is going
I AI is just going to get better and
better and I do think there is an
opportunity for and I think lots of AI
labs are going to do this. They're going
to start watching your screen as you
work and they're going to look at what
you're doing and they're going to
proactively offer opportunities for them
to help you. And this is uh we've built
something like this at Athena as kind of
internal testing tool where we watch
this is just using it for internal
employees but we watch them as they work
and then we automatically offload a task
they should delegate but they haven't
vocalized to their assistant and the
person who built this internally the
majority of his delegations are now
machine generated. That means he didn't
say anything. He's just working on his
computer. The machine is effectively
watching. It's identifying things that
his assistant could help with and it
sends it to the assistant. Now, of
course, the human's in the loop and is
going to say, "Oh, Chris would want me
to help with this. I'll start working on
it." Or, "This one's worthless. I'll say
no." So, I I do think that is going
where the world's going. I think we're
getting to world where you just work,
machines watch you, they identify your
goals, and then pass it off to a
combination of machine and human
assistants for the execution.
What are some of the
potential negative externalities of a
world where
people outsource incorrectly
or they they do it too much or
what are some of the ways that people
can get this wrong?
>> Yeah, I hear some people say, you know,
you shouldn't delegate your life and I
think that's right. like you shouldn't
delegate spending time with your kids or
with your wife. Uh you should delegate
the things that you don't want to do to
do the things that are meaningful to
you. So I think that's one way. Um you
know the other thing is I think you need
to treat your assistant with the respect
and love that they deserve. Right? This
is not just hey do this for me. Uh this
is hey we're a partnership. I want to
help you build your life. I want to give
you more opportunity, more income.
You're going to help support me, and it
needs to be a mutual thing. We, this
doesn't happen very often, but we've had
to fire a few clients at Athena who just
like weren't kind to their assistants,
and that's unacceptable to us. Uh, we we
only want to work with people who are
are kind and generous with their
assistance cuz our assistants are there
to take care of you, and they give so
much that they deserve uh that same in
exchange.
>> Yeah. I worry [clears throat]
there's been parts of my life where I've
got I've got concerns that my tolerance
or my resilience for [__] which is
inescapable
may become more finely attuned as I
don't deal with [__] on a daily
basis. Kind of like you know these
astronauts that go up to space and they
don't need to lift any weight and then
they come back down and they're unable
to support themselves. Does that make
sense?
>> I I totally know what you mean. We uh I
live in Puerto Rico and the getting
things done in Puerto Rico is a little
more difficult than
>> I've I've I've heard slightly slightly
challenging. Yes. With the mana mana uh
philosophy
>> and I am uh you know I'm lucky to have
this team that's basically filter
between me and the difficulty of getting
things done. And you know I do
occasionally step outside of that filter
and I'm like whoa I've like forgot how
hard this is is. So, look, I think if
they're for like waiting in line at the
DMV, I just like never need to be good
at that. So, I don't mind if my skills
atrophy. Uh, but you know, if
something's important for your work or
your skill set or your craft, then
obviously you can't fully delegate it
and you need to own that and keep your
skills sharp. Uh, and so I think if you
delegate something like that, that could
I I could see that being a a negative
thing. But there's 100 other things to
delegate that are not core to your
highest skill and all those things. I
don't I don't really care if uh yeah, my
inbox management skills atrophy. Just
not my not my focus in life.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In other news, you've
probably heard me talk about element
before and that's because I am frankly
dependent on it. Uh and it's how I've
started my day every single morning.
This is the best tasting hydration drink
on the market. You might think, why do I
need to be more hydrated? Because proper
hydration is not just about drinking
enough water. It's having sufficient
electrolytes to allow your body to use
those fluids. Each grab-and-go stick
pack is a sciencebacked electrolyte
ratio of sodium, potassium, and
magnesium. It's got no sugar, coloring,
artificial ingredients, or any other
junk. This plays a critical role in
reducing muscle cramps and fatigue while
optimizing brain health, regulating your
appetite, and curbing cravings. This
orange flavor in a cold glass of water
is a sweet, salty, orangey nectar, and
you will genuinely feel a difference
when you take it versus when you don't,
which is why I keep going on about it.
Best of all, there's a no questions
asked refund policy with an unlimited
duration. Buy it, use it all, and if you
don't like it for any reason, they give
you your money back, and you don't even
have to return the box. That's how
confident they are that you'll love it.
Plus, they offer free shipping in the
US. Right now, you can get a free sample
pack of Element's most popular flavors
with your first purchase by going to the
link in the description below, heading
to drinklnt.com/modern
wisdom. That's drinklnt.com/modern
wisdom. How how novel of a solution is
this given the expanse of human history?
How
recent is it? cuz it can sound in some
ways like again a cosmopolitan
Tik Tok generation Gen Z chatgt solution
to well people should just be able to
sort of go and go and get it man. Um
yeah how how recent is this versus how
sort of steeped in history?
>> Yes. So we did some fun research at
Athena. We actually used AI to do this.
We uh we got a list of thousand of the
kind of greats of history and downloaded
10 biographies in all of them and then
looked for how they delegated and across
all sorts of people Cicero Newton Caesar
Einstein Voltater Gates Churchill
Picasso Buddha
all of them had personal assistance and
it's not a coincidence because these
people did not 10x but like a thousandx
more than other people have done in
history. And there's this kind of great
man view of history that one person does
these great things. And there's some
truth to that. But the reality is
there's actually a team and there's an
organization and there's typically an
assistant who is helping this person
accomplish great things. The history
books just don't put those those people
on the cover. But that's how that's how
it's actually happened. And yeah, it's
fun reading uh these stories. is I'm I'm
reading a biography of Cicero right now
and he has a assistant who is yeah
helping him manage the uh manage the
Roman Empire and trying to protect the
republic and uh this guy is not you know
the person we learn about when we learn
about uh history but it was important
and so you know our view of this is if
you want to accomplish small things or
great things uh it's helpful to have an
assistant. Uh there's there's also funny
stories. So Katherine the Great, I think
was one of the uh the greats at
delegation. She's delegated not just
managing her empire and uh rewriting the
the laws, but she also had someone she
delegated her dating life. And so she
had someone dedicated to first dates and
to testing quote male capacity. And
>> no way.
>> Yeah. And that person kind of was
running top of funnel for [laughter]
her. And I'm like, dude, Catherine, you
are an OG delegator.
>> Savage. Holy [__]
>> Insane. [laughter]
>> That's that's like P. Diddy's
delegation. Uh
>> the
the Wright brothers. I've got two books
about them. Housemate George is
obsessed.
>> And uh they delegated the first design
of the plane engine for the Kittyhawk.
Right.
>> Correct. Yeah. Darwin delegated uh this
whole army of uh fact gathering
assistants to collect data for the
origin of species. Edison delegated to
an assistant to find the filament for
the first light bulb. They found it in
Kyoto and there's actually a shrine that
exists in Kyoto today to the assistant
who found this. And
>> so hang on hang on hang. So I have not
failed. I have just found a thousand
ways that I did not succeed. Thomas
Edison
did not actually technically come up
with the design for the filament
himself. It was just someone on his
team.
>> He delegated it. He said, "I need this
filament. Someone needs to go someone
needs to go find it." But yeah, he gets
all the credit. And that's fine. That's
how history works. But it's not how
>> I mean the Wright brothers, right? It's
I mean the I don't think the first
design was the one that worked, but
there was a there's this really cool
line. Um, I think it's the photographer
who took the pictures of the first
flight when the Kittyhawk was up and he
referred to the Wright brothers as the
workingest boys that I ever saw. Like
just like this pure early 1900s
Americana kind of sentence, the
workingest boys that I ever saw. And
he's talking about their single-minded
nature, their agency, their personal
sovereignty, and so on. But
the first engine design wasn't done by
them. So it was like the delegating boys
that I ever saw.
>> Exactly. Look, you don't history doesn't
award style points for doing it all
yourself. History awards points for
getting it done. And the way you get
things done is with with a team.
>> And for some of us, that's an assistant.
For other people, you know, uh Steve
Jobs, he had a a team of 10,000 people
who are helping him bring the iPhone to
life. But uh
>> yeah, you shouldn't you shouldn't try to
do it all alone. No, if if Steve Jobs
can't do it alone or Edison can't do it
alone, you shouldn't try to do it alone.
>> It's a good point because I think the
[snorts] humility certainly the humility
that I would feel as a a Brit. Uh who am
I to outsource this? My life's not as
difficult. And I suppose it's an obvious
criticism to say, well, yeah, the
president needs an army of assistance.
Of course he does. He's the president.
But I'm not trying to do that. So I
don't need that. But the flip side is
yeah also you're not the president like
you don't have the capacity of somebody
like a Thomas Edison or the Wright
brothers. So given that yeah your your
goals are more
uh mediocre uh and and more humble but
uh so is your ability and I think
>> I mean compensate appropriately and
Napoleon and Lee Kuanu needed an
assistant. Think how much I need it.
[laughter]
some of the most high capacity on their
own people in the world and yeah you're
exactly right
>> have you looked at the neuroscience of
delegation like how
it appears inside of the brain because I
imagine that there's a lot of open loops
that can get closed off I also know that
there's a hierarchy of how different
tasks new tasks get attacked with
certain areas of the brain system one
and system two from sort of Daniel
Carnean stuff it seems like a pretty
obvious map from doing it externally
with a different person to what is
already happening internally with inside
of our brains.
>> Yeah, delegation goes back to origin or
species and our brains have this
relentless
uh desire to optimize both energy and
energy uh and information. And because
of that optimization, it has the brain
has crafted this hierarchy of task
distribution where complex novel tasks
uh are tackled by our prefrontal cortex
and routine tasks are offloaded to lower
and more automated neural structures. So
we like to say that it's not that our
brain was merely wired for delegation,
but it was wired by delegation. And it's
just built into our brains from the very
beginning. We delegate inside our brains
and now we can delegate between brains.
>> What did these life experiments that you
did? You did you've pretty much every
year I think for a while did some wild
annual test.
What What did you learn from doing
those?
>> Well, I just I'm experimental, so I just
like trying things and ripping life up,
you know? I think one of the the first
things I did after I left my company,
Thumbtac, where my meetings, I had
meetings from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
all day long. And I felt like I just
didn't have sovereignty over my time.
And so when I left, I said, "I'm going
to work with no calendar, zero meetings.
If you want to if you want to talk to
me, call me. Let's uh do go WhatsApp or
voicemail." And that uh was one of the
most freeing things I've ever done. Um
it's not something you can always do. Uh
but I I certainly recommend to anyone
who has a chance to kind of work without
a calendar uh for even a little bit. Uh
it's uh a beautiful thing. [snorts]
>> Okay. And what about the delegating by
voice
solution?
>> Yeah. So there are there's a hierarchy
of how you delegate and most people
delegate with their thumbs on their
phone. worst way kind of better than
that is to delegate with all your
fingers on email. But the best way to
delegate is by voice where instead of
typing things you voice note. And I
tried for a year just delegating almost
exclusively through voice. And voice is
way more powerful than other mechanisms
of delegating because you can talk three
to five times faster. Uh then you can
type, you can do it between meetings uh
in an Uber, at the gym and it's
>> I think it feels less arduous as well.
It's like I've just got this thing
trying to work. How do I want to say
this? I've got to type the thing out as
opposed to hey, I need flower. I think I
need what do I need? Flowers. I need
flowers. And and today I need flowers
today. And then it's kind of done as
opposed to working out what needs to go
through your thumbs.
>> Yeah. And you know to the point of how
do you give better feedback? The way you
give better feedback because you do it
by voice. Because if you have to type up
a page of notes, you're just not going
to do it. But if you can just be like,
"Hey, here's what I liked." and you talk
about it as you walk on in the park and
you talk all day long. Um, yeah, I think
it takes some training to learn to
delegate by voice. Some people are a
little uncomfortable with it, but if you
look at the top delegators at Athena,
they all delegate by voice constantly,
just all day long.
>> Okay. Uh, start of the year, a lot of
people have got new resolutions, myself
included. One of my big ones is to
reduce my time on my phone.
>> Mhm.
How have you managed to reduce phone use
and what are some of the strategies that
you've learned around that?
>> So the first thing I tried, you know,
there's this time app on your phone that
just shares how much time you're in
different apps and
>> weak source. Weak source.
>> Totally. I I I tried using that. It's
just useless. Uh, and so what I what I
the experiment that worked for me was
when I went to buy a new phone, I kept
my old phone and I downgraded it to what
I call my freedom phone and I deleted
everything from it except the bare
essentials. I can Uber, I can I can uh
uh make phone calls, but I don't have
email. I don't have all my messaging
apps. I don't have all the bad things.
And I actually have gone so far that
I've banned all news sites checking the
price of crypto, all sorts of other
stuff. Um, and my wife has the code, so
I literally can't unlock it. So, this
freedom phone I call is what I take out
of the house with me. And it's got the
stuff I need and everything else is
totally locked down. And that's the only
thing I've done that's worked because
it's literally impossible for me to use
it for uh anything distracting. And I
don't, for me personally, I don't know
about you, but I don't mind if I'm on
the phone a lot. If I'm like making a
phone call to a friend, that's cool.
What I don't like is just like passively
picking up the phone to check
notifications. That's just a waste of
brain power and shouldn't be doing. And
this freedom phone that's totally locked
down has solve that for me.
>> That is a good point. And you know,
people upgrade a phone every two years,
maybe something like that. And by the
time that you know two iPhones from
now's iPhone comes out, you'll get 300
bucks or maybe 200 bucks at trade in. I
don't know. I don't know what you would
get, but I know it's not uh a it's not
concordant with the amount of value that
the device brings. It's certainly not
like a $200 for that phone. Like [__]
yeah, I would even if the battery sucks
a little bit. Um, so what I would do is
I would actually make the new phone the
freedom phone and I would make the old
phone because the old phone's kind of
got to be tethered to
>> but I I've been I've been a proponent of
this for quite a while. I think
>> my most extreme was three. One was the
cocaine phone, another was the kale
phone. Um, and then a third one was
Wi-Fi only and that was what I actually
did morning routine stuff on. So that
was meditation apps, that was Kindle,
Audible, maybe podcast apps, uh all my
breath work stuff, my loginins for all
of the different personal development
things I was doing. And um I went back
home. It's so funny. I was back in the
UK over Christmas. And I was back in my
old house and I was in my old room, my
old bedroom, which people can go back
and watch. The first episodes from the
show ever were recorded in there.
>> And I'm sat on the couch, this little
couch that's on the right hand side. And
uh I've got this iPhone [__] it must
be a six maybe or a five or something.
It's ancient technology. And I realized
it's the only phone that can still
control the lights in my house because
that was the one that the Philips Huegh
system had been connected to. So I'm
there trying to fight with this decade
old iPhone in a desperate attempt to try
and get the lights in my bedroom to turn
on. And I've been flying. I flew from
Kawaii to the UK. It's 28 hours or
something. Basically a day and a half
plus 11 hours of time. It's a [__]
nightmare. I get in and then I'm
battling with this phone. And in some
ways it was super annoying, but in other
ways it was really lovely and nostalgic.
So, uh yeah, I've tried I think as a a
pretty easy sort of low entry accessible
way for people to spend less time on
their phone. Uh, and a good a good
solution here as well is if you do use
the uh old phone, if you I guess people
don't use physical SIM cards anymore,
but if you move the SIM to the one that
you're allowed to take out of the house,
>> what that actually means is that the old
one only work the cocaine phone only
works on Wi-Fi. Yeah.
>> Which means that if you take it out with
you, it stops working, which is, you
know, great, but it you're
>> cementing yourself. you're tethering
yourself to your house.
>> I have a I have a friend who had a real
phone addiction and he had killed phone
entirely and just carried a laptop with
him. So when he wanted [laughter] to
call someone or do something, he'd have
to open the laptop and it was a real
pain in the ass and it worked. But yeah,
that's kind of that's real like aa
that's that's desperate times.
>> Correct.
>> I mean the other thing is you don't you
don't have to have two phones, right? If
you don't have the money to buy a second
phone or to, you know, use an old phone,
just make your main phone the Kale
phone. Just don't have any of that stuff
on it and have it on your computer. And
I have, you know, I don't mind if I'm
WhatsAppapping whatever on my computer
cuz I'm getting work done, but just the
passive stuff is what's toxic. Before we
continue, getting mobile data while
traveling is still way harder than it
should be. Public Wi-Fi is sketchy.
Roaming charges are the worst. And
buying SIM cards in a foreign language
after a 12-hour flight is about as fun
as playing with a dead moth. Which is
where SY comes in. It's an app that
gives you instant access to ESIM data
plans in over 190 countries so that you
can get online the moment that you land.
No more fumbling around with physical
SIMs. No more talking to a human to set
it up and no more holding your phone in
the air like Simba looking for a signal.
Just open the app, choose a plan, and
you are instantly connected. Best of
all, the plans start at just a few
bucks. There's no subscription and you
only pay for what you need. And if you
haven't activated your data plan or
installed the eim, s offers a full
refund within 30 days, no questions
asked. Right now, you can get 15% off
any data plan by going to the link in
the description below or heading to
s.com/modwisdom
and using the code modernwisdom a
checkout. That's s a ly.com/modernwisdom
and modernwisdom a checkout. What do you
do from a distraction limitation
standpoint when it comes to your laptop
setup?
Uh my laptop setup I kind of let
everything go. Uh it's not a problem for
me. I'm just like in work mode and so I
I let everything through there.
>> Okay. Well,
>> is that is that something you work on
>> a little bit? Yeah. Me and me and the
boys did a a big series called Life
Hacks back in the day on the show and a
lot of what we were doing was trying to
constrain distractions
uh through environment design, through
digital environment design. And uh cold
turkey is a really fantastic solution
for this. It's a website blocker. You
can schedule stuff in advance. You can
just give it the websites that you use
most frequently. And cold, there's a
period where Johnny was using something
called frozen turkey, which is a feature
on cold turkey that shuts your laptop
off. So it's not just blocking certain
websites. It literally will not let you
get onto your laptop. And um you can set
certain stuff up. So, one sort of SOS, I
desperately need it. We break glass in
case of emergency thing. And then I'm
pretty sure there's another one that he
set up where he had to donate money to
charity if he wanted to get [laughter]
it. It's like every time you go, it lets
you, but then it like just autodebits
your account.
>> I think that's I think that's what he
did for a while. But he was trying to
>> But then you're like, well, now I'm
giving you charity, so I guess you
>> actually I should use my laptop more.
Yeah, exactly. It's noble.
It has to be a charity you hate, a
political candidate. You don't
>> give to the opposing political party.
Yeah, that'll be good. That'll be good.
Uh, all right. So, let's say let's say
that someone's made it this far and
they're at least partly convinced by
your thesis.
What are the remaining objections
typically or what are the what are the
fears that people have? Um, and how do
you overcome those?
Yeah, I think number one is feel a fair
fear of failure. Will it work? Uh, and
that I say it's it's not going to work
on day one. You just got to go for it
and it will compound. It will get better
uh over time. The other thing is a lack
of control and trust. Some people have
trouble trusting others and letting go
of control. And you know what we say is
trust should be built over time. So
don't give your bank account access on
day one. Uh you start with more limited
access and then you grant more and more
access over time. I worked with you know
one of my assistants for over a decade
and she has basically access to
everything but that takes a long time to
build that trust and so you kind of go
at your own pace. You don't have to go
faster than you're comfortable with but
you've got to give up some control uh if
you want to get more leverage. That's
just part part of the game. Um, and then
I think the the the other fundamental
blocker for lots of people is just like
knowing what they want more of. And
you've got to have this thing that draws
you into it cuz it's going to be
activation energy. There's going to be
investment. And so, you got to have a
vision for how you want your life to be
better. It's I want more time to start a
business or I want more time for my
family or my kids. And I think if you
have that specific goal, then delegation
is not about a task, which is kind of
low level. It's about unlocking
something that's more meaningful to you.
>> What
I'm trying to think about,
let's say that somebody onboards a an
assistant, but they they need somebody
that's in person or or they're not using
Athena. What are the best resources for
how to train that person? Is is there a
how to create a great assistant coaching
course? Is there some sort of like uh
master class that people can follow?
Where would you anticipate or where
would you suggest that people go to for
that?
>> There's nothing that's fantastic out
there. Um but if if you go to
playbooks.aththena.com, Athena.com.
We've built some of our favorite
playbooks for things you can delegate.
So, you can come look at our website.
Um, and you know, I think the the best
way is just to get started and to do it
yourself. I've I've watched a bunch of
YouTubes and read a bunch of books and
the reality is there's not a lot out
there. When we started Athena, our goal
was to recruit and train the best
executive assistants and just match them
with clients. And what we found after we
matched the first 10 clients is every
single client said the same thing. How
do I delegate my inbox? How do I
delegate date nights? And so it became
clear to us that we'd have to invest as
much in teaching and coaching our
clients as the assistants. This is kind
of like it's a marriage. We're both in
it. And so we've invested a lot in
building those playbooks, creating the
coaching uh to help people. Um and at
some point we'd love to kind of open
source that and share that more with the
world, but right now it's it's all
internal.
>> Is it possible? I I I have to bring this
up. Whenever I think about assistants
and especially hiring assistants, one of
the first things that I think of is an
episode of Family Guy where Stewie made
himself a clone that was called [__]
Stewie. [__] [__] Stewie basically did
all of the stuff that Stewie didn't want
to do. So, he he made himself an
assistant. And he was a bit sort of
slower and kind of there were a few
chromosomes missing. And then Brian saw
[__] Stewie and really wanted his own
clone. But instead of making it himself,
Stewie got [__] Stewie to make [__]
Brian. And [__] Brian like ear fell off
and he turned into a puddle and broke on
the floor and stuff. In your experience,
how how effective is it to get other
members of staff, potentially assistants
or other people to do the hiring,
training, all the like delegating the
delegating? Um, is this still something
that needs to be done by the principal
or is the is there a way to outsource
outsourcing?
>> You can delegate almost everything. Uh,
but
>> including the active delegation. Yeah,
but you have to delegate components of
it. So, for example, if I'm recruiting
executive at Athena, I would not have my
assistant interview the CFO. But what I
would say is, hey, I'm going to go
through my CRM now. Open a voice note.
Here are 30 friends I know who have cool
companies. They know CFOs. I want you to
pre-draft an email from me to this
person asking for an introduction to the
best CFO they've ever worked with. And
then those emails get dropped in my
inbox and I send those out and I have my
assistant CC herself on the email so
when the responses come back she can
help schedule them. So you know my when
people say like what can I delegate?
It's basically anything. I I turn around
I say what's your top personal and
professional goals? Tell me what those
things are and I'll tell you some ways
uh you can delegate. And so like for you
like 2026 Chris what what are your top
personal and professional goals?
uh build a world-class studio
um go on tour and not need to worry
about whether operations back home are
continuing
and fix my health.
>> Great. And on uh health uh how could you
delegate components of that? organizing
testing,
speaking to the different doctors,
updating them on where this these
numbers are at and whether Chris has
completed that course and whether he did
those IVs. There's sleep people and
there's nutrition people and there's IV
people and they all need it's almost a
full-time job. Yeah. I mean, I've
>> I've done related to health. One of the
first projects, kind of mega projects I
did with my assistant was look through
my calendar and my inbox for every
doctor's appointment I've had for the
last decade. And then from my inbox,
reach out to those doctors and ask for
my health records. Uh cuz it has to come
from my inbox and then centralize all of
those test results, all the doctor's
visits, put it in one spreadsheet. And
this, you know, I wouldn't just never
have done otherwise. It just wouldn't
have happened. But now that I have it, I
can drop that into chat GPT and be like,
"Hey, what's what should I do about my
cholesterol and it can look over the
last decade and make uh make real
recommendations." So yeah, you you can
always break it down into projects that
someone can help take off your plate.
>> Heck yeah. Jonathan Swanson, ladies and
gentlemen, Jonathan, you're awesome.
Athena is a [__] dope company. I've
got a bunch of friends who rely on it.
And I think what you're doing to
emancipate us from the drudgery of
online internet work and to outsource it
to people who actually love to do that,
I think is is really really cool. Um, if
people want to check out more of what it
is that you guys do, where should they
go?
>> You go to Athena.com and uh we we'd love
to help you get more leverage. Uh, and
uh, thanks thanks for having me on.
>> You do know that one of my friends who I
think uses your service named his
daughter Athena.
>> [gasps]
>> Uh, I did I did not know that, but uh I
had twins this summer and my wife and I
named one of our girls Athena.
>> Let's go. There's two Athenas. There's
three Athenas in the world now.
Technically, [laughter]
>> Jonathan, I appreciate you. Thank you,
brother.
>> All right. Thank you so much.
Congratulations. You made it to the end
of an episode. Your brain has not been
completely destroyed by the internet
just yet. Here's another one that you
should watch.
Come on.